AODSEM  (Aerosol Optical Depth Spatiotemporal Evolution Model)

28-01-2000

general package description

The purpose of AODSEM package is to provide a set of tools to work with
 optical properties from a 3-d distribution of aerosol.  The package is
designed for a unix system environnement.  All the programs are written in
FORTRAN 77.  Each program can be used separately but it is preferable to take
advantage of the shell scripts (e.g. aodto, 3dtoa, dynam, etc.).  Those
scripts allow the execution of any program from any working directory.  All
the necessary files will be managed by those scripts.  To install AODSEM, the
user may first add the following path line (PATH=...:$HOME/AODSEM/Scripts) in
his .profile file situated in his home directory.   Finally the AODSEM
directory as to be copied in the home directory of the user. 

- The package can convert a 3-d multiple size-type aerosol number density 
distribution into an aerosol optical depth map for a given set of wavelength.
It can also simulate sunphotometer observation in a specific line of sight. 
It is  also possible to convert a set of aerosol optical depth measurements
into a 3-d distribution.  This is done by first interpolate the data to obtain
a complete aerosol optical depth (aod) map.  Then the program uses simple
aerosol model and vertical profiles to convert the aod map into a 3-d
distribution.  The 13 models used (from a combination of oceanic, rural, urban
models) are chosen from a 1x1 degres world land-sea mask and a 1x1 degres
fossil fuel Black Carbon emission (BC) mask (the latest from GEIA inventory).

The user can also produce an aerosol extinction cross-section file for many 
aerosol types, wavelength, and relative humidity.  The relative humidity
growing factor can also be computed.

Finally the user may compute the temporal variation of the aerosol optical 
depth using a semi Lagrangian-Eulerian advection and deposition model or a
data assimilatio system.

You can find a description of functions in html format in the AODSEM/Doc 
directory or simply accessed to it by entering infor in a terminal window.

Some documentation can be found here https://w1.cegepsherbrooke.qc.ca/~aubema/graphycs/NOMAD/index.html

---
Martin Aube
Cegep de Sherbrooke,
Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada J1K 2R1
tel. (819) 340-3121 
Email: martin.aube@cegepsherbrooke.qc.ca
https://w1.cegepsherbrooke.qc.ca/~aubema


